hello my fans I'm very excited to bring
you another special guest to the channel
this is Steve from black pen red pen
Steve do you want to tell everyone a
little bit about what you do over on
your channel yes
hello everyone my name is Steve I'm from
black to repent now on to thanks to Tom
for having me on his channel my channel
as well I do a lot of like calculus
videos and what make the map up on my
topics are pretty random I'll say but I
enjoy what I'm doing and I hope you guys
find my videos interesting as well
yeah really highly recommend everything
Steve does it's super fun lots of
marathons doing integrals and
derivatives it's amazing some of the
stuff that you end up getting up to so
on the channel Steve has quite a few
videos where he's trying to answer some
Oxbridge interview questions and I
thought this was quite fun being a
Oxford professor myself and I actually
do the interviews and ask these
questions of candidates every year so we
decided perhaps I wouldn't say
reluctantly you were actually a very
willing volunteer so I suggested that
perhaps I could sort of interview Steve
and give him some of the questions that
I've actually used myself in previous
interviews so these are real Oxford
interview questions put forward by an
actual Oxford professor to a potential
student so Steve of course is just
pretending here this is not a real
admissions interview but hopefully we
should have some fun with some of the
questions and also do some really
interesting maths
yeah yeah I am actually nervous I make
you feel like I am being interviewed
right now so I don't know cuz I don't
think I can ever get into Oxford so
we'll see I hope I do okay okay okay
awesome I can't thank you so much for
being willing to give this a go so I
have my my interview notes in front of
me so me at the first problem that I
thought we would look at is something
called Gabriel's horn is the name of the
problem so first of all have you heard
of this yes I have okay awesome so so
maybe you will quite enjoy this one bed
so so just to start with we'll start
with something hopefully reasonably
straightforward so
you just first draw the graph of 1 over
X sure definitely so I'm going to put it
down right here so let's see and I'll
just try my best to make my picture
clear for you guys so this is y equals 1
over X perfect and then if we were to
also look at let's say 1 over x squared
on the same set of axes how would that
look you want to on the same one or a
different one let's go with the same one
because I think the interesting behavior
is in comparing them ok so first of all
I will put a 1 over x squared in red and
of course 1 over 1 + 1 over 1 square
it's the same so they will intersect
each other at 1 comma 1 so let me see it
would look like this you look like this
1 over x squared is going to decrease a
lot faster than 1 over X so I'm trying
too much yeah there we go 1 is 1 over x
squared here we go these are only
sketches so don't worry that's that's
absolutely perfect ok great now we're
going to start with 1 over X and what
we're going to do now is actually create
a volume of revolution for this function
so we want to take the 1 over X curve
and then rotate it a full 2pi around the
x axis ok so if we want to take the
kerfing black which is 1 over X I would
rotate about the x axis which is like
this so the picture is going to look
like this
and I usually I will try to do a mirror
image like this and then at the end I'll
just put it over and there maybe here
well actually it does not it's just when
X is equal to 0 so I will actually just
do like this and here is still my y-axis
ah yeah that's the picture no that's
great that's great
so we're actually going to think about
it starting at 1 and going all the way
to infinity so we can if you want you
can close it up so this is the horn this
is gay Gabriel's horn where the name of
the problem comes from because you can
imagine it's a very long almost like
horn or trumpet like the
blow down right so this right yeah I
should technically keep on going forever
yes perfect so it's an infinite infinite
horn right okay okay yeah good um
now do you know the the formula for the
volume of a revolution when we've
constructed it in this way yes could you
possibly tell us the formula and also
could you perhaps explain why that is
actually equal to the volume okay so the
formula is will we can kill just take a
disk right so we can make a cut like so
and the formula of the volume of a disk
is pi times the radius square times the
height but the hide right here is just a
small piece our code is the thickness so
the formula right here you can see that
the thickness it is just DX and the
radius is from here to here which is the
Y so the volume for this little disc is
PI Y squared DX and then if you want to
get the whole volume we're going to add
the up and the way we're going to add
the app is the density of Y which is
integration so the whole volume we are
just going to write it down like this
all your equals and we have to add them
all so I just put on integral and yeah
that's pretty much the idea and
depending on where you want to start and
where you're going to add we'll just
have to put this down right here and one
last touch is that we have to also pay
attention to the Y because Y it's now
allowed in the X world that's how I like
to say it so we had to plug in one of X
into the Y and which was tax to write
that out Thanks very good so I'm glad
you mentioned the limits because we're
actually going to use we want to do this
and calculate the volume between the
point one to some large number a let's
start with from one is it yes so
starting at one we want to know the
volume from one to some large number a
all right so one to some a I'm sorry
about a picture right here one to a
alright okay
you want a to be large so maybe you have
to take the limit for that that's where
we're going yes for now let's just
calculate what would it be for a and
then we'll take the limits at the end I
think all right stop
the volume this right here it's equal to
if we take the limit and they a equal to
infinity so it's right here
that means this right here keeps on
going forever and then the integral
going from 1 to a and then we have pi
well I'll just say this right here is my
new volume because I'm doing the whole
thing pi and then the Y is 1 over x
squared and then we have the DX after
that yeah we're telling me to work this
out for yes yes yes so and I straight
explained this along the way - yes
please yeah it's I think it's some
something we do encourage in all of the
interviews is is for you know as you're
working we want to hear your thought
process so yes if you can explain what
you're doing that would be perfect okay
and I think in order to go into Oxford
how to be x rigorous as possible so I
will know okay I would write on the
limits all right here we have to take
the limit but we have to worked out the
integral first so this is still the
limit as a goes to infinity and this
right here is just the interval going
from 1 to a and we have PI and this is 1
over X square and we can write here as X
to the negative 2 power the X and we can
totally integrate this by adding the 1
and then that's going to be negative 1
divided by the new power so we see this
is the limit as a goes to infinity and
we have 1/2 a actually no we did the
integration step already so this right
here will give us negative pi and extra
negative once already has one of X like
this and I will have to plug in 1 and a
like so and then I just have to worked
out the limit as a goes to infinity
parenthesis plucking a so we have
negative PI over a and then - this is
the first part - the second part is you
plug in 1 so negative PI oops
negative PI over 1
like this yeah if you put infinity here
negative PI over infinity worked p0 and
I think that step is pretty clear so
yeah and then minus minus one in the a
actually get PI for this yes yeah
awesome yeah perfect
so R so the volume of our Gabriel's horn
is going to be pi yes yes okay fantastic
now what we want to do next is try and
think about the surface area of the same
shape so to start with we are going to
think about well what is the the formula
for the surface area of a revolution I
see for the surface area we cannot
really look at a cylinder anymore
because this part is slanted this part
isn't it so you have to look here like a
comb and you're cutting to like pieces
you can do to a cross section and then
you just unrolled the comb so it's going
to look like this so if you have a comb
and you cut it so it's actually going to
look like this part and there's a
formula to calculate the area of this
which I think we will need to know how
long this is and then also the diameter
so just to illustrate I will actually
just erase this part and I'll show you a
new picture well imagine you just put
down a part of the comb like this again
this is not the whole cone yeah
and we look at this area here and the
formula for that I was just cut out to
be the s yeah which is meaning the small
change in the surface area this right
here you will have to actually know the
change in the are legs which are coated
to be DL and then for the DL you are
going to multiply that with the
circumference so you have to know the
yes and in the formula for the
circumference is 2 PI R so that's the
idea yeah yes so it's like this and to
rotate it and that will give you the
that will give you the surface area and
again just like earlier we will have to
use integral to add up all the surface
area from the starting all the way to
the end yeah
so finally L say yes it's equal to the
integral and we'll just put down 2 pi
the radius is going to be our Y again so
write down Y for now yeah and because we
know DL actually is just by the
Pythagorean theorem is DX square plus dy
square no this is not a person I won't
use mu the final result okay that was a
correct step but yes you probably want
to jump ahead so you know give you the
final result from there I will have to
just start out the DX square so in the
end I actually get square root 1 plus
the Y DX square and then the DX all the
way yet so this right here represents
the DL I will have to put it down right
here those square root of 1 plus from
the C is dy DX square Y X like this so
this is the general formula and of
course we were hard to plug in the
function in here and do the derivative
here in order to worked out the surface
area perfect thank you now we're going
to you may have guessed oh we're going
we're going to now actually work this
out for y equals 1 over X and we're
going to take the full Gabriel's horn so
we want to have our lower limit as 1 and
our upper limit as infinity and it's
probably I think it's easiest here to
just plug in infinity and you know
rigorously we are taking a limit exactly
like you did but I think we can just
plug in infinity for now and worry about
the limit at the end okay yeah cuz
nobody related to dread on the Li M
exactly as long as we know you have to
do it I think it's ok to leave it to the
egg
all right yes for the surface area we
will go from one to infinity and we have
two pi the Y is 1 over X I will just put
that down and then we do the square root
and here we the DX and let me actually
get a new marker all right so here we
have the 1 plus dy DX the derivative of
1 over X is just negative 1 over X
square so I will just write that down so
we have the negative 1 over X square so
I'll put that down nefi 1 over X square
like so and then we square that and
again this is the Y right here ok ha I
thought you enjoyed integrals you sounds
like I thought this would be exactly
what you would love to try and calculate
ok so do the easy poppers as I usually
would like to start with put up 2 pi in
the front and then integral 1 to
infinity this is 1 over X and we
multiply by the square root all right
this is 1 plus 1 over X to the fourth
power so right yes let's just add so
this is going to be multiplied with X to
a fourth and also x to a fours
so all we get X to the fourth plus 1
over X to the fourth and we have the DX
right here and I think I don't know if I
can actually integrate this but I will
argue that it might not converge because
if I take the square root of x to the
fourth on the bottom that will give us x
squared on the bottom and then on the
top we have square root of x to the
fourth plus 1 DX yes
yes and then this right here I will just
say 2 pi integral 1 to infinity this is
just square root of x to the 4th plus 1
over X to the 3rd power DX and we will
have to use some comparison test to
argue that this right here unfortunately
diverges so very good yeah yeah I will
just say by computers and by comparison
okay computer weight comparison there we
go a comparison with the integral 1 to
infinity this right here just X square
if you ignore the 1 so it's x squared
and this is extra power reduced that is
1 over X this right here I purchase so
on oh this right here also diverges to
infinity because this is actually bigger
not yes yes very good you spotted that
very early I'm very impressed so what
we've actually shown if we take stock of
the whole problem is that we've
calculated for this infinite horned
called Gabriel's horn we've calculated
that the volume is equal to PI just and
the surface area is infinity yes
does that make sense no it kind of like
a contradiction because how can you have
something that's finite volume by like
meaning that you can fill in with that
finite amount of stuff like paint or
like water but you can never finish
painting the corn so yeah
this is yeah this is this is why it's
favor this is why it's called Gabriel's
horn because exactly as you've said you
could fill this with PI units of paint
and it would completely fill to the top
and then if you tried to paint the
outside you would be there forever which
i think is quite a neat anita example or
a neat idea involving convergence and
divergent integrals and series so i
think we can all agree there that steve
has performed excellently in our
interview question there we tackled
Gabriel's horn and we've sort of resolve
the paradox maybe maybe we have maybe we
haven't but we certainly got to the
right answers and hopefully had a bit of
fun while doing it so we're going to do
a second question but this is going to
come in it another video so do look out
for that one but the first half of the
interview is now over Steve is sitting
in a very good position I think we could
all agree he did well and it's all
resting on the second question no in the
meantime do go and check out Steve's
awesome channel black pen red pen if you
haven't already like I mentioned it's
really great loads of really nice
calculus marathons have been stevedore
six hours of doing integrals it's crazy
and if you have enjoyed this video as
well please subscribe to my channel that
would be super awesome and just to say
thank you to Steve and we'll be back
again soon with another question thank
you so much Tom
you